--- Page 1 ---
Template 
1 
 
ENGINEERING, PROCUREMENT, & CONSTRUCTION (EPC) AGREEMENT 
 
 
THIS EPC AGREEMENT ("AGREEMENT") IS MADE EFFECTIVE AS OF [DATE] (THE 
“EFFECTIVE DATE”) BETWEEN [CEFIA HOLDINGS LLC, A CONNECTICUT LIMITED 
LIABILITY COMPANY] (“CLIENT”) AND [ COMPANY NAME   ], A [ COMPANY TYPE    ] WITH 
OFFICES AT [ COMPANY ADDRESS ] (“EPC CONTRACTOR”), (EACH, A “PARTY” AND 
TOGETHER, THE “PARTIES”) FOR THE DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION OF A 
SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM (THE “SYSTEM”) AT [ PROJECT LOCATION ].   
1. 
DEFINITIONS 
The following terms shall, for all purposes of the Contract Documents comprising this Agreement, have 
the meanings stated herein, unless the context otherwise specifies or requires, or unless otherwise defined 
in the Contract Documents:  
1.1 
“Claim” has the meaning given it in Section 15.4. 
1.2 
“Client’s Agent” has the meaning given it in Section 14.1. 
1.3 
“Completion Cost” has the meaning given it in Section 18.5. 
1.4 
“Construction Documents” consist of the architectural, mechanical, electrical, and 
engineering plans, drawings and specifications as specified in Schedule #11 (including the specifications 
for Major Equipment as set forth in Schedule #1 and for System Specifications as set forth in Schedule 
#2), together with all approved Project Change Orders, addenda and revisions thereto. 
1.5 
“Contract Documents” consist of this Agreement, together with all exhibits, and schedules 
hereto, the Construction Documents, the Project Schedule, and any mutually executed, written 
modifications and amendments to any of the aforementioned, including Project Change Orders.  
1.6 
“Contract Sum” is the amount set forth in Schedule #6. 
1.7 
“DAS” has the meaning given it in Section 12.3. 
1.8 
“Day” means a calendar day unless otherwise specifically defined. 
1.9 
“Engineering Services Company” means any company that is engaged for services 
provided by its Professional Engineers.  
1.10 
 “Final Completion” means the full completion of all Work, including the satisfaction of 
all conditions for Substantial Completion, together with those set forth in Schedule #10. 
1.11 
“Final Completion Date” means the date that Client makes the Final Completion payment 
(Payment #6 in Schedule #6) to EPC Contractor, which will be no later than the Required Final 
Completion Date. 
1.12 
“Final Project Size” has the meaning given it in Section 13.1. 
1.13 
 


--- Page 2 ---
Template 
2 
 
1.14 
“Force Majeure” means any act or event that directly delays or prevents a Party from 
timely performing obligations under this Agreement or from complying with conditions required under 
this Agreement if such act or event, despite the exercise of reasonable efforts, cannot be avoided by, and 
is beyond the reasonable control of and without the fault or negligence of, the Party relying thereon as 
justification for such delay, nonperformance, or noncompliance, which includes, without limitation, an 
act of God or the elements, extreme or severe weather conditions, explosion, fire, epidemic, landslide, 
mudslide, sabotage, terrorism, lightning, earthquake, flood, volcanic eruption or similar cataclysmic event, 
an act of the public enemy, war, blockade, civil insurrection, riot, civil disturbance, or strike or other labor 
difficulty caused or suffered by a Party or any third party beyond the reasonable control of such Party, or 
an extended grid power failure. However, financial cost or failure to secure adequate labor or any 
necessary materials or equipment alone or as the principal factor shall not constitute grounds for a claim 
of Force Majeure.  
1.15 
“Governmental Authorities” shall mean each of the United States of America, the State 
of Connecticut, and local municipal governments, in each case to the extent having jurisdiction over 
Client, EPC Contractor, the Project Site, the Work, Services, and or the Project. 
1.16 
“Guarantee Period” means the time during which the Performance Guarantee is in effect 
under the terms of this Agreement. 
1.17 
“Hazardous Materials” has the meaning given it in Section 17.1. 
1.18 
"Holdback Amount” has the meaning given it in Section 13.3. 
1.19 
“IEER” means the Insolation-adjusted Expected Energy Ratio, calculated using the DAS 
as follows: (x) actual kWh divided by expected kWh, divided by (y) actual insolation (as measured by 
irradiance sensor) divided by expected insolation. 
1.20 
“Interconnection Agreement” means that certain Generator Interconnection Agreement to 
be signed by and between the Utility and Purchaser, as well as Client, if necessary. 
1.21 
“Initial Project Size” has the meaning given it in Section 13.1. 
1.22 
“Legal Requirements” shall mean all present and future laws, codes, ordinances, statutes, 
requirements, orders and regulations of a Governmental Authority, ordinary and extraordinary, foreseen 
and unforeseen, all industry safety standards and all other standards and regulations referred to elsewhere 
in the Contract Documents and all directions, requirements, orders and notices of violations thereof. 
1.23 
 “Liquidated Damages” means damages in the amount the Parties designate herein for the 
injured Party to collect as compensation upon a specific breach of this Agreement. Any sums payable 
hereunder in the nature of liquidated damages, and not as a penalty, are fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances. 
1.24 
 “Major Equipment” means equipment set forth on Schedule #1. 
1.25 
“Material Supplier” means a person or entity retained by the EPC Contractor to provide, 
or through which the EPC Contractor or any Subcontractor purchases, material and or equipment for the 
Work. 


--- Page 3 ---
Template 
3 
 
1.26 
“Mechanical Completion” means when the Work is mechanically, electrically and 
structurally complete, in accordance with the requirements of this Agreement, Prudent Industry Practices 
and is capable of delivering electricity to the applicable delivery point, in the reasonable discretion of 
Client such that all requirements of this Agreement have been achieved, including the delivery of an 
executed Schedule #8.  
1.27 
“Mechanical Completion Date” means the date that Client makes the Mechanical 
Completion payment (Payment #4 in Schedule #6) to EPC Contractor, which will be no later than the date 
set forth in the Project Schedule provided that Client has approved, or otherwise indicated any required 
changes and reasonable basis for same, all in accordance with this Agreement. 
1.28 
“Notice to Proceed” means the Client’s written acceptance of the Request to Proceed and 
release by the Client to the EPC Contractor to commence the Work.  
1.29 
“Others” means other contractors and or persons at the Project Site who are not employed 
or retained by the EPC Contractor, its Subcontractor(s) and or Material Suppliers. 
1.30 
“Party” or “Parties” has the meaning set forth in the Recitals. 
1.31 
“Permit” means all permits, licenses, approvals, consents, orders, registrations, privileges, 
franchises, memberships, certificates, entitlements and other authorizations issued by Governmental 
Authorities, including environmental, health and safety permits, site plan approval, building permits, 
certificates of occupancy, and all amendments, modifications, supplements, general conditions and 
addenda thereto. 
1.32 
“Professional Engineer” means a person who is licensed to practice their respective 
engineering discipline in a particular state or US territory after meeting all requirements of the law.  
1.33 
“Project” means the real property, improvements and the System for which the EPC 
Contractor, its Subcontractor(s) and or its Material Suppliers are to perform the Scope of Work under this 
Agreement. 
1.34 
“Project Change Order” means a written order signed by the Client and the EPC 
Contractor after execution of this Agreement, indicating changes in the Scope of Work, date of Substantial 
Completion, the cost of such changes in Scope of Work, and or date of Final Completion, including 
substitutions proposed by the EPC Contractor and or its Subcontractor(s) and accepted by the Client in its 
sole discretion. Project Change Orders shall be effective only if in writing and signed by the Client and 
the EPC Contractor, notwithstanding any principles of law to the contrary.  
1.35 
“Project Completion Documents” means the documents required to be delivered to Client 
at the time of Final Completion as a condition to final payment, all as set forth in Schedule #4 annexed 
hereto. 
1.36 
“Project Schedule” means the document prepared by the EPC Contractor, subject to Client 
approval, based on and specifically incorporating all milestone dates set forth in Schedule #3 attached 
hereto, which specifies the dates on which the EPC Contractor shall begin and complete various parts of 
the Scope of Work, including without limitation milestones for completion of essential critical 
components of the Work, dates for Required Substantial Completion, and Required Final Completion, and 


--- Page 4 ---
Template 
4 
 
dates on which information and approvals are required from the Client based on timely submissions to the 
Client by the EPC Contractor, all as may be modified by the Client and EPC Contractor in writing with 
the consent of all Parties, a copy of which will be as appended to Schedule #3 in accordance with Section 
6.1 of this Agreement. 
1.37 
“Project Site” means the location on which the System is located, as more fully set forth 
in Schedule #2 and Schedule #17. 
1.38 
“Prudent Industry Practices” means those practices, methods, standards, and acts 
(including those engaged in or approved by a significant portion of the solar-generated electric power 
industry and/or the North American Electric Reliability Corporation) of similarly situated engineering or 
construction firms, as applicable, on projects similar in size, nature, complexity and geographic region as 
the Project that at a particular time in the exercise of good judgment, and in light of the facts known at the 
time the decision was made, would have been expected to accomplish the desired result in compliance 
with all Legal Requirements and in a manner consistent with economy and expedition.  Prudent Industry 
Practices are not necessarily defined as the optimal standard practice method or act to the exclusion of 
others, but rather refer to a range of action reasonable under the circumstances. 
1.39 
“Punchlist Work” means all incomplete minor elements of the Work identified in 
accordance with this Agreement following Substantial Completion, which, in accordance with Prudent 
Industry Practices, are not required for the commercial operation of the Project or for any approvals from 
Governmental Authorities. 
1.40 
“Purchaser” means [Company name], together with its heirs, successors or assigns, being 
that same entity defined as “Buyer” in that certain Power Purchase [and License] Agreement entered into 
between the Buyer and [PPA Seller] dated as of [   ]. 
1.41 
 “Request to Proceed” means the Request to Proceed, attached hereto as Schedule #12, 
requesting Client’s approval to commence the Work. 
1.42 
“Required Final Completion Date” means the date set forth in the Project Schedule, as 
such date may be adjusted by mutual agreement of the Parties in accordance with this Agreement.  
1.43 
“Required Substantial Completion Date” means the date set forth in the Project Schedule, 
as such date may be adjusted by mutual agreement of the Parties in accordance with this Agreement.  
1.44 
“Scope of Work” means Services and Work, as detailed in Schedule #17, which shall 
include such construction and services necessary or incidental to fulfill the EPC Contractor’s obligations 
for the Project in conformance with this Agreement and the other Contract Documents. 
1.45 
“Services” means the pre-construction, architectural, design, engineering, permitting, and 
other professional services necessary or incidental to fulfill the EPC Contractor’s obligations for the 
Project in accordance with the Contract Documents. 
1.46 
“Solar Array Design” has the meaning given it in Section 11.2.3. 
1.47 
“SEF Expected Production” has the meaning given to it in Schedule #2. 


--- Page 5 ---
Template 
5 
 
1.48 
 “Subcontractor” means a person or entity retained or engaged by the EPC Contractor as 
an independent contractor as provided in Schedule 19, which can be amended from time to time with prior 
approval from the Client For purposes of this Agreement, Subcontractors shall include, but not limited to, 
architects, designers, electricians, engineers, and or other consultants and or professionals as may be 
engaged by the EPC Contractor for the Services and or the Work. 
1.49 
“Substantial Completion” means when the Work is sufficiently complete, in accordance 
with Prudent Industry Practices and in the reasonable discretion of Client such that all requirements of 
this Agreement have been achieved, including the completion and execution of Schedule #9.  
1.50 
 “Substantial Completion Date” means the date that Client makes the Substantial 
Completion payment (Payment #5 in Schedule #6) to EPC Contractor, which will be no later than the 
Required Substantial Completion Date.  
1.51 
“System” has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.  
1.52 
 “System Specifications” means the details of the System design and installation, set forth 
on Schedule #2. 
1.53 
“Utility” means [The Connecticut Light and Power Company d/b/a Eversource 
Energy], the local utility company that provides electricity to the Project Site.  
1.54 
“Utility Requirements” means all requirements of the Utility relating to the System and 
the Project, including those requirements set forth under the Interconnection Agreement, all such 
requirements to be performed in accordance with Prudent Industry Practices. 
1.55 
“Work” means all work, labor, fabrication, materials, equipment, supplies, accessories, 
hoisting, scaffolding, packaging, truck freight, delivery, disposal, power hookups, installations, 
protection, shop drawings, supervision, permits, and or all other services and facilities necessary for the 
proper construction and completion, operation and maintenance of the Project in accordance with, and as 
are reasonably inferred from, the Contract Documents.  
1.56 
Terms not expressly defined in the Contract Documents shall be interpreted in accordance 
with generally established use of such terms within the architectural, engineering, electrical, and 
construction industries, assuming first class construction. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun 
shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words “include,” “includes” 
and “including” shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase “without limitation”. The words “agree,” 
“agreement,” “approval” and “consent” shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase “which shall not be 
unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or unduly delayed,” except as the context may otherwise require. 
2. 
SCOPE OF WORK 
2.1 
The EPC Contractor’s Services include all planning, programming, design and 
construction administration for the Project, including without limitation all necessary architectural design, 
engineering, zoning compliance, code compliance, budgeting and scheduling, as well as design for all 
temporary structures, rigging, hoists, scaffolding and bracing, all consistent with the Work. Anything in 
the Contract Documents to the contrary notwithstanding, the EPC Contractor shall ensure that any existing 
elements of a building on which the Work is to be installed, including the structure of the existing building, 


--- Page 6 ---
Template 
6 
 
is capable of supporting all of the Work in accordance with Prudent Industry Practice and Legal 
Requirements, including all Major Equipment. 
2.2 
The EPC Contractor shall be responsible for the supervision and coordination of the Scope 
of Work, including (i) the design, engineering, and necessary engineering detail as required by the Client 
with respect to the Project, (ii) all construction means, methods, techniques, sequences and procedures 
utilized, including those specified in the Contract Documents, and (iii) coordination among all 
Subcontractors, Material Suppliers, the Client, and Others. When Legal Requirements require that 
Services be performed by licensed professionals, the EPC Contractor shall provide those Services through 
the performance of qualified persons or entities duly licensed to practice their professions. 
2.3 
The EPC Contractor will work with Client to design an installation and work plan 
consistent with the Scope of Work and reasonably acceptable to Client. Upon written request of the Client, 
the EPC Contractor shall coordinate the services and necessary demarcations between services of any 
consultants, contractors, subcontractors or suppliers retained by the Client in connection with the Project 
with those services provided by the EPC Contractor and or its Subcontractors and consultants. 
2.4 
The EPC Contractor shall confine operations at the Project Site to areas permitted by 
applicable Legal Requirements and the Contract Documents, and shall not unreasonably encumber the 
Project Site with materials or equipment.   EPC Contractor shall be responsible for the security of the 
Project Site and all materials and equipment located therein. 
2.5 
The EPC Contractor shall be responsible for all cutting, fitting or patching of existing 
conditions required to complete the Work or to make its parts fit together properly. 
3. 
EPC CONTRACTOR’S REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES, COVENANTS AND 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
3.1 
The EPC Contractor has all necessary power and authority to conduct its business and enter 
into the transactions contemplated hereby.  The EPC Contractor has the right to enter into and perform 
this Agreement, and the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and all other documents 
executed in connection therewith have been duly authorized and constitute valid and binding obligations 
of the EPC Contractor, each enforceable in accordance with its respective terms. The most recent copy of 
the resolutions and authorized agents, in the form of Schedule #21 attached hereto, provided by EPC 
Contractor to Client is a true, correct and complete copy, authorizing the execution, delivery and 
performance of this Agreement and any other documents to be executed in connection therewith, and such 
approvals and authorized agents have not been rescinded or amended as of the Effective Date. 
3.2 
The EPC Contractor represents that it and or its Subcontractors shall be duly licensed and 
registered to perform such portion of the Services and or Work as it or they shall be called upon to perform, 
as may be required in the jurisdiction where the Project Site is located in accordance with Legal 
Requirements. The EPC Contractor shall provide the Client, at or prior to the Effective Date or the 
execution of a Subcontractor agreement, as applicable, evidence of EPC Contractor or any 
Subcontractor(s) licensing and registration, respectively.  Client will be notified promptly but in any event 
not later than two (2) Days of any changes, suspensions, or revocations of licenses held by either EPC 
Contractor or any Subcontractor(s), respectively.   


--- Page 7 ---
Template 
7 
 
3.3 
The EPC Contractor covenants and agrees with Client to (i) furnish its commercially 
reasonable skill and judgment in performing the Services and Work and to cooperate with Client and 
Others in furthering the interests of Client with respect to the Project; and (ii) to perform the Services and 
Work in a manner that ensures Client’s rights under any equipment or services warranties provided to or 
for the benefit of Client under this Agreement (whether by assignment or otherwise) are not impaired as 
a result of any actions or inactions by EPC Contractor or any Subcontractor hereunder.  
3.4 
The EPC Contractor represents and warrants that (i) it has visited the Project Site and has 
become familiar with all conditions under which the Scope of Work is to be performed, has correlated, 
and shall continue to correlate, all personal observations with the requirements of the Contract Documents, 
and shall make any necessary adjustments or corrections resulting therefrom, and (ii) the conditions under 
which the Scope of Work will be performed will not hinder the EPC Contractor from fulfilling its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
3.5 
The EPC Contractor represents, warrants and confirms, that it is or will be, prior to the start 
of any Work knowledgeable as to all (i) Legal Requirements, (ii) equipment manufacturer installation 
guidelines and warranty requirements applicable to the equipment and materials used in the Work and (iii) 
Utility Requirements. All Services and Work shall be done in accordance with this Agreement, all Legal 
Requirements and all warranty requirements. The EPC Contractor shall give any and all notices required 
and comply with all Legal Requirements and Utility Requirements bearing on safety of persons or property 
or their protection from damage, injury or loss.  EPC Contractor represents and warrants that any 
Subcontractor(s) will comply with the standards set forth in this section 3.5 and covenants that EPC 
Contractor shall (i) ensure that any Subcontractors comply with this Section 3.5 and (ii) be liable for the 
failure of any Subcontractor(s) to comply with any Legal Requirements or warranty requirements. 
3.6 
The EPC Contractor represents that the Contract Sum as set forth in this Agreement is 
based on the Project program requirements and the Contract Documents in existence as of the Effective 
Date.  
3.7 
The EPC Contractor represents, warrants, and covenants that all labor wage payments 
made in connection with the performance of the Work shall be subject to prevailing wages. EPC 
Contractor represents and warrants that any Subcontractor(s) will comply with prevailing wage 
requirements for labor wage payments. The EPC Contractor and any Subcontractor(s) shall comply with 
the requirements of Conn. Gen. Stat. Sec. 31-53(a), set forth below: 
The wages paid on an hourly basis to any person performing the work of any mechanic, 
laborer or worker on the work herein contracted to be done and the amount of payment or 
contribution paid or payable on behalf of each such person to any employee welfare fund, 
as defined in subsection (i) of Conn. Gen. Stat. Sec. 31-53(a), shall be at a rate equal to 
the rate customary or prevailing for the same work in the same trade or occupation in the 
town in which such public works project is being constructed.   Any Contractor who is not 
obligated by agreement to make payment or contribution on behalf of such persons to any 
such employee welfare fund shall pay to each mechanic, laborer or worker as part of such 
person’s wages the amount of payment or contribution for such person’s classification on 
each pay day. 


--- Page 8 ---
Template 
8 
 
3.8 
EPC Contractor represents and warrants that it will comply with all labor safety, health, 
and non-discrimination and or harassment Legal Requirements and that it will take all reasonable and 
practicable care to ensure a safe, healthy, and discrimination-free and or harassment-free environment at 
the Project Site.  EPC Contractor represents and warrants that any Subcontractor(s) will comply with and 
covenants that it shall ensure that they do comply with all Legal Requirements for labor safety, health, 
and non-discrimination and or harassment. EPC Contractor represents and warrants that it, together with 
any Subcontractor(s), will comply with Purchaser’s specific security procedures (as may be reasonably 
promulgated from time to time), and shall conduct activities in such a manner and such a time and day as 
to not unreasonably interfere with Purchaser’s activities. [May include additional Purchaser-specific 
security requirements and protocols.]  
3.9 
EPC Contractor shall at all times during the performance of the Work and the duration of 
this Agreement maintain insurance from an insurance company reasonably satisfactory to Client as 
follows: (a) commercial general liability (“CGL”) coverage of not less than One Million Dollars 
($1,000,000) (per occurrence)/Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) (aggregate); (b) automobile liability of 
not less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000); (c) worker’s compensation of not less than the greater of 
(i) One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) per accident/disease, and (ii) statutory requirements; (d) umbrella 
liability of Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000); I professional liability of not less than One Million Dollars 
($1,000,000) (per occurrence)/One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) (aggregate), and, if subcontracting to an 
external Professional Engineer, such Subcontractor shall also maintain professional liability of not less 
than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) (per occurrence)/One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) (aggregate) 
with the Client as an additional insured; and (f) property insurance in the form of an installation floater 
insuring property to be installed while in transit, at off-site storage, and onsite awaiting installation and 
after installation until job completion (together (a) through (f) is defined as “Insurance”). EPC Contractor 
shall provide Client with endorsements to the CGL policy, in form and substance satisfactory to Client, 
that include Client (and such other persons or entities as Client may reasonably designate hereafter) as an 
“additional insureds”. The Insurance policies required hereunder shall contain a provision that coverages 
afforded under such policies will not be canceled or allowed to expire until at least 30 days’ prior written 
notice to the Client.  EPC Contractor shall provide the Client, within ten (10) Days of the Effective Date, 
evidence of the Insurance required in this section 3.9.  Client will be notified by EPC Contractor within 
ten (10) Days of any changes, suspensions, or cancelations of any Insurance required in this section 3.9.   
3.10 
EPC Contractor Insurance required in this section 3.9 must cover all actions or activities 
of any Subcontractor(s) for any Work or Services performed by any Subcontractor(s) or any 
Subcontractor(s) must purchase policies satisfactory to Client and provide evidence of said policies within 
five (5) Days of the execution of a Subcontractor agreement.  Client must be notified promptly but no later 
than two (2) Days of any changes, suspensions, or cancelations of any Subcontractor(s) Insurance policies.  
EPC Contractor represents and warrants that it and all Subcontractors will enter into, and comply with, a 
Release, Hold Harmless and Indemnification Agreement, substantially in the form of Schedule #22 
attached hereto, for the benefit of the State of Connecticut associated with the Work at the Project Site. 
4. 
SUBCONTRACTOR(S); SUBCONSULTANTS; SUPPLIERS 
4.1 
The EPC Contractor shall hire, retain, contract with, and manage such Material Suppliers 
and Subcontractor(s) as EPC Contractor shall deem necessary to perform and complete the Scope of Work 
subject to the terms of this Agreement. 


--- Page 9 ---
Template 
9 
 
4.2 
The EPC Contractor shall be responsible for providing the Subcontractor(s) with all 
necessary Project Site direction and supervision. Absent default or the EPC Contractor’s failure to perform 
as described herein, the Client shall not assume any responsibility for the Subcontractor(s), including 
completion of the Scope of Work, payment for services, or any other supervisory responsibilities. 
4.3 
The EPC Contractor shall be solely responsible for the selection and retention of 
Subcontractor(s) provided that (i) they are selected from the list of contractors set forth as Schedule #19 
and (ii) prior to the EPC Contractor engaging any such Subcontractor, and or any Material Supplier for 
the Major Equipment, the EPC Contractor shall furnish the Client with the name, address, credentials and 
other relevant information with respect to such party and shall not engage same where the Client has 
issued written notice of reasonable objection to same within ten (10) Days of such furnishing by the EPC 
Contractor; provided, that such reasonable objection is based on objective factors suggesting to a 
reasonable contractor that such subcontractor should not be engaged to perform services on the Project. 
EPC Contractor shall, furnish the Client with a list of the names and addresses of all such Subcontractor(s) 
and or Material Suppliers to be used for the Project upon the execution of this Agreement. 
4.4 
All agreements with Subcontractors and or Material Suppliers shall reasonably conform to 
the applicable payment provisions of this Agreement, consistent with Legal Requirements, and Utility 
Requirements. EPC Contractor shall pay any amounts due to any Subcontractor or supplier, whether for 
labor performed or materials furnished, not later than thirty days after the date the EPC Contractor receives 
payment from Client which encompasses labor performed or materials furnished by such Subcontractor 
or supplier.  EPC Contractor agrees to include in each of its subcontracts a provision requiring each 
Subcontractor and supplier to pay any amounts due any of its subcontractors or suppliers, whether for 
labor performed or materials furnished, not later than thirty days after the date such Subcontractor or 
supplier receives a payment from the EPC Contractor which encompasses labor performed or materials 
furnished by such Subcontractor or supplier.  The EPC Contractor shall require and cause each 
Subcontractor to provide lien waivers and releases in favor of the Client prior to receiving progress 
payments and final payments in the form of Schedule #13. Nothing contained in the Contract Documents 
shall create any contractual relationship between any Subcontractor and or Material Supplier and the 
Client, nor create any obligation on the part of the Client to pay or to see to the payment of any sum to 
any such Subcontractor and or Material Supplier.  
4.5 
The EPC Contractor shall perform all of its obligations and agreements with each of its 
Subcontractors and or Material Suppliers and shall fully pay each such party the agreed price for its 
equipment, Services and or Work properly completed in a timely manner, but in any event, in accordance 
with the terms of any agreement with such Subcontractors and Material Suppliers. In the event the EPC 
Contractor fails to pay any Subcontractor and or Material Supplier as required, the Client shall have the 
option (but not the obligation), upon written notice to the EPC Contractor, to pay such party directly and 
deduct the sum so paid from the Contract Sum.  
5. 
SUPERVISION; PERFORMANCE OF THE WORK; CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
5.1 
The Services and Work shall be supervised by the individuals (“EPC Contractor’s 
Supervisors”) identified in Schedule #5 attached hereto. The EPC Contractor’s Supervisors assigned to 
the Project shall, if required under Legal Requirements, be duly licensed in the city and state of the Project 
Site. The EPC Contractor’s Supervisors are the only individuals authorized to supervise and direct the 
performance of the Scope of Work and the EPC Contractor shall not, except upon the request of, or with 


--- Page 10 ---
Template 
10 
 
the approval of, the Client in each instance, which request or approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, 
make any substitutions to the EPC Contractor’s Supervisors. The EPC Contractor’s Supervisors shall be 
authorized to act for the EPC Contractor in all matters relating to the Scope of Work (other than any action, 
failure to act, or alteration in either that would materially change the agreed upon terms of this Agreement), 
and all directions given by them shall be as binding as if given to the EPC Contractor. The EPC 
Contractor’s Supervisors shall be available for consultation with the Client, and Others during normal 
business hours and shall not accept any other assignment that could materially affect their attention to the 
performance of the Services or Work, as applicable. 
5.2 
The EPC Contractor shall supervise the performance of the Service and Work to achieve 
timely completion of the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. The EPC Contractor 
shall keep the Client (or Client’s Agent) reasonably informed of the progress and quality of the Work. 
5.3 
The EPC Contractor will promptly order all equipment, including any Major Equipment, 
required for the Work after the Client provides (i) written approval of the Construction Documents and 
Project Schedule and (ii) written acceptance of EPC Contractor’s executed Request to Proceed. If the 
Construction Documents and Project Schedule are approved by the Client, but Notice to Proceed has not 
been issued by the date listed in the Project Schedule, then each of the subsequent dates listed in the Project 
Schedule shall be extended by the number of Days between the later of the dates the Construction 
Documents or Project Schedule was approved and date on which the Notice to Proceed is issued. 
5.4 
The EPC Contractor will give Purchaser prompt and reasonable notice in writing of 
differences, other than de minimis differences, between the materials and equipment specified in the 
Contract Documents and any proposed substitutions. 
5.5 
The EPC Contractor, Purchaser, and the Client shall, to the extent reasonable and 
practicable, agree on a date for delivery of Major Equipment and for the installation thereof. If the agreed 
delivery date is postponed in excess of ten (10) Days at the request of the Client after the Major Equipment 
has been purchased by EPC Contractor, then EPC Contractor shall put such equipment in safe storage at 
the Project Site at Client’s expense.  If agreed delivery date is postponed or materials are not permitted to 
be stored at Project Site, such delay will be considered an excusable delay, and Contractor shall be 
provided a day for day increase in Required Substantial Completion Date.  
5.6 
The EPC Contractor and or its Subcontractor(s) shall install all Major Equipment in 
accordance with the manufacturer's guidelines and specifications so as to preserve all manufacturer 
warranties. 
5.7 
The EPC Contractor and or its Subcontractor(s) shall install all electrical equipment, 
conduit and wiring in accordance with current National Electrical Code standards (NEC 2014) as required 
by the Government Authorities, and such installation shall conform to all Legal Requirements and Utility 
Requirements. Wiring must be UL-listed, with labeling to show the voltage rating.  
5.8 
Upon completion of installation of the Major Equipment, EPC Contractor will 
“commission” the Major Equipment in accordance with each manufacturer’s installation instructions, 
conditions, warranties, Legal Requirements and Utility Requirements. Commissioning will verify that the 
performance of the Major Equipment performance is as specified by the Contract Documents, that all 
components are in proper working order, and that the Client understands the general operating principles 
