--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
SOLAR POWER SYSTEM 
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT 
 
THIS OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”) is 
made and entered into as of December 19, 2012, (the “Effective Date”), by and between WSD 
Solar Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company a (“Project Company”), and True 
South Renewables, Inc., a California corporation (“Contractor”). Project Company and 
Contractor are sometimes hereinafter referred to individually as a “Party” and collectively as the 
“Parties”. 
RECITALS 
 
A.  
 Project Company owns and develops solar power systems (each a “System” and 
collectively, the “Systems”) at various sites located in Los Angeles County, CA, on property 
owned by the Wilsona School District, (the “Host”) as described in Exhibit F attached hereto 
(collectively, the “Premises”). 
B. 
Project Company has entered into with Host that certain Solar Energy Power Purchase 
Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2011 (the “PPA”), for the delivery of power from the Systems 
to Host as more particularly provided in the PPA and has access to the Premises pursuant to 
those certain solar site Easement Agreements, (as amended from time to time, collectively, the 
“Site Agreements”) between Project Company and Host.  
C. 
Project Company has entered into that certain Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction Agreement, dated as of November 10, 2011 (the “EPC Contract”), with Rosendin 
Electric Inc., a California corporation (the “EPC Contractor”), for the design, procurement of 
equipment, construction, and installation of the Systems. Equipment has been acquired for the 
Systems, either pursuant to the EPC Contract or other procurement or purchase order 
agreements, and pursuant to which the equipment manufacturer has provided express warranties 
which are currently held by the Project Company. 
D.  
Project Company has entered into that certain Asset Management Agreement with 
PsomasFMG, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“PsomasFMG”), pursuant to which 
Project Company has delegated to PsomasFMG certain management responsibilities.  
E. 
Project Company has entered into that certain Lease dated as of December 19, 2012 (the 
“Lease”), with BA Leasing BSC, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the “Lessor”). 
F. 
Project Company intends to retain the services of Contractor to provide and carry out 
operations and maintenance services necessary to optimize performance of the Systems through 
scheduled maintenance, repairs, and other services as are reasonably required for continuous 
operation of the Systems at the optimal level of performance, and in accordance with the 
Availability and Performance Guarantee set forth in Exhibit C. Contractor has expertise in 
providing operations and maintenance services with respect to distributed solar energy facilities, 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
and will provide such services, all on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.  
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals, the mutual agreements, 
representations, warranties and covenants set forth in this Agreement and the exhibits hereto, and 
other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby 
acknowledged, Project Company and Contractor agree as follows: 
ARTICLE 1 
DEFINITIONS AND USAGE 
Section 1.01 Definitions.  Unless the context shall otherwise require or the 
express terms of this Agreement shall otherwise provide, capitalized terms used in the recitals 
hereto shall have the meanings given to them in the recitals and capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement shall have the following meanings: 
“Affiliate” of a specified Person means any Person that directly or indirectly through one 
or more intermediaries controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such 
specified Person.  As used in this definition of Affiliate, the term “control” of a specified 
Person including, with correlative meanings, the terms, “controlled by” and “under 
common control with,” means (a) the ownership, directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of 
the equity interest in a Person or (b) the power to direct or cause the direction of the 
management and policies of a Person, whether through ownership of voting securities, by 
contract or otherwise. 
“Agreement” means this Operations and Maintenance Agreement as defined in the 
preamble, including all exhibits and schedules attached hereto, as amended from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions herein.  
“Applicable Law” means any provision of law, statute, rule, regulation, ordinance, order, 
decree, judgment or decision, permit, registration, authorization, or guideline issued by a 
Governmental Authority that is applicable to a Party to this Agreement, the Systems, or 
this transaction.  Applicable Law also includes an approval, consent or requirement of 
any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over such Party or its property, 
enforceable at law or in equity. 
“Applicable Permit” means each national, state, local or other license, consent, 
appraisal, authorization, ruling, exemption, variance, order, judgment, decree, 
declaration, regulation, certification, filing, recording, permit (including, where 
applicable, conditional permits) or other approval with, from or of any governmental 
authority, including each and every environmental, construction, operating or occupancy 
permit, that is required by Applicable Law for the performance of the Services or 
operation or maintenance of any System. 
“Assigned Warranties” is defined in Exhibit A. 


--- Page 3 ---
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
“Availability and Performance Guarantee” is defined in Exhibit C.  
“Business Day” means any day other than (i) a Saturday or Sunday or (ii) a day on which 
commercial banks in New York, New York or in San Francisco, California are authorized 
or required to be closed. 
“California Solar Initiative” means the solar rebate program for California customers of 
Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E), Southern California Edison (SCE), San Diego Gas & 
Electric (SDG&E). 
“Case Log” means a report that Contractor will use to document and report on the status 
of malfunctions and other System issues. 
“Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 
“Commercial Operation” means the milestone when a System has received its permit to 
operate by the applicable utility, and the Project Company has officially placed the 
System into service. 
“Commercial Operation Date” means the first day on which the first System in the 
Project Portfolio commences Commercial Operation. 
“Commercially Reasonable Efforts” means, when used with respect to either Party 
hereto in any circumstances, such prompt, substantial and persistent efforts of such Party 
as are commercially and technically reasonable in such circumstances in light of the facts 
known or that should reasonably have been known at the time. 
“Confidential Information” is defined in Section 12.10. 
“Connected Module Nameplate Power” is defined in Exhibit C. 
“Contractor” is defined in the preamble. 
“Contract Month” means any calendar month of the Contract Year. 
“Contractor Representative” is defined in Section 3.04. 
“Contractor Supplied Parts” is defined in Exhibit A. 
“Contractor Warranty” is defined in Section 6.02. 
“Contract Interest Rate” means 3% per annum. 
“Contract Year” means each period of twelve consecutive calendar months during the 
term of this Agreement commencing on January 1 of each calendar year, except for the 
first Contract Year, which shall commence on the Commercial Operation Date of the first 
System and continue through December 31 of that calendar year. 


--- Page 4 ---
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
“Data Acquisition System” or “DAS” means the monitoring and data acquisition system 
and relevant components that measures, displays, and logs energy production, solar 
insolation and other weather data, and other information from the Systems and Sites. 
“Designated Agent” means any Person appointed by Project Company to act on behalf 
of Project Company pursuant to Section 3.10.  The initial Designated Agent shall be 
PsomasFMG.  In the event there is no Designated Agent, all references to Designated 
Agent shall mean the Project Company. 
“Designated Agent Representative” is defined in Section 3.11. 
“Effective Date” means the date of this Agreement as defined in the preamble hereto. 
“Emergency Response Plan” is defined in Attachment A to Exhibit A. 
“EPC Contract” is defined in the recitals. 
“EPC Contractor” is defined in the recitals.  
“Equipment Data Sheet and Manual List” is a list of all data sheets, installation 
manuals, user manuals and maintenance manuals for all equipment, as provided by the 
Designated Agent.   
“External Cause Hours” or “HEC” is defined in Exhibit C. 
“Externally Caused Outage Incident” is an incident when an Inverter Core in a System 
is curtailed from operating because of a Force Majeure Event or any curtailment or 
outages caused or required by the utility company or the Host.  
“Events of Default” is defined in Section 10.01.  
“Fee Adjustment Date” is defined in Section 5.02. 
“Field Verification List” means a listing in Microsoft Excel of key attributes of the solar 
structures (such as array structure, tilt, and azimuth) at a Site that has been provided to 
Contractor. 
“Financing Parties” means the Lessor and/or any other Person(s), bank(s) or other 
financial institution(s), if any, from time to time issuing or providing any construction, 
term financing, working capital financing, credit support, credit enhancements, interest 
rate hedging, and/or other permanent debt, sale-leaseback financing, lease financing or 
tax equity funding for the Systems or Project Portfolio, including any applicable trustee, 
collateral agent, security agent, or similar party acting on its behalf. For purposes of 
clarification, Financing Parties includes a lessor providing sale-leaseback financing with 
respect to any System, but does not include a Person(s) providing a rebate (whether a 
manufacturer or vendor rebate on equipment purchased, or the California Solar Initiative 
rebate), tax credits, grants or governmental financial incentives. 


--- Page 5 ---
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
“Force Majeure Event” means any act or event that prevents the affected Party from 
performing its obligations in accordance with this Agreement, that is not the result of the 
fault or negligence of the Contractor or any of its Subcontractors and that is beyond the 
reasonable control of the affected Party and such Party has been unable to overcome such 
act or event with the exercise of due diligence (including the expenditure of reasonable 
sums), and, subject to the foregoing conditions, shall include:  (a) natural phenomena, 
such as unusually severe storms, hurricanes, floods, volcanic eruptions, lightning and 
earthquakes; (b) explosions or fires arising from lightning or other causes unrelated to the 
acts or omissions of the Contractor; (c) acts of war or public disorders, civil disturbances, 
riots, insurrection, sabotage, epidemic, terrorist acts or rebellion; (d) strikes or labor 
disputes caused or suffered by third parties beyond the reasonable control of Contractor 
or its Affiliates, except strikes or labor disputes caused by Contractor’s or any of its 
Subcontractors’ employees or as a result of Contractor’s or any of its Subcontractors’ 
failure to comply with a collective bargaining agreement; and (e) action by a 
governmental authority, including a moratorium on any activities related to this 
Agreement.  Economic hardship shall not constitute a Force Majeure Event. 
“GAAP” means generally accepted accounting principles. 
“General Materials” is defined in Exhibit A. 
“Governmental Authority” means any federal, state, county, local, municipal or other 
governmental, regulatory, administrative, judicial, public or statutory instrumentality, 
court or governmental tribunal, agency, commission, authority, body or entity, or any 
political subdivision thereof, having legal jurisdiction over the matter or Person in 
question. 
“Hazardous Materials” means any chemical, substance or material regulated or 
governed by any Applicable Permit, or any substance, emission or material now or 
hereafter deemed by any Governmental Authority to be a “regulated substance,” 
“hazardous material,” “hazardous waste,” hazardous constituent,” hazardous substance,” 
“toxic substance,” “radioactive substance” or “pesticide.” 
“Host” is defined in the recitals. 
“Incident Report Form” is a report template that Contractor will use for the 
documenting and reporting of any service call, repair activities, or other maintenance 
activities falling outside the scope of scheduled maintenance in a form acceptable to the 
Designated Agent.    
“Indemnified Party” is defined in Section 11.01(d). 
“Indemnifying Party” is defined in Section 11.01(d). 


--- Page 6 ---
 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
“Independent Engineer” means any independent engineer or engineering firm selected 
by the Project Company or Financing Parties to provide independent evaluations and 
determinations with respect to the Systems. 
“Industry Standards” means those practices, methods, specifications and standards of 
safety specified in Exhibit A with respect to the operation and maintenance of any 
Systems; provided that if the relevant Industry Standards is not so specified, then 
“Industry Standards” shall include those practices, methods, specifications and standards 
of care and diligence normally practiced by solar operation and maintenance service 
providers in performing services of a similar nature and in accordance with good 
operation and maintenance service practices, Applicable Law, Applicable Permits, and 
other standards and regulations expressly established for such Services, including but not 
limited to the National Electric Code, California Solar Initiative, applicable utility and 
interconnection requirements, and OSHA.  
“Initial Term” is defined in Section 9.01.  
“Inventory List” means the list of equipment located at the Sites provided to Contractor. 
“Inverter” means an electrical device that is comprised of one or more Inverter Cores. 
“Inverter Core” means an electrical device that changes direct current to alternating 
current. 
“Inverter Downtime” means any 15-minute period where solar insolation is higher than 
80 W/m2 and inverter AC power is 0 or less than 0 where such condition is not caused by 
an Externally Caused Outage Incident.   
“IRS” means the Internal Revenue Service. 
“ISO” means Insurance Services Office. 
“Key Contact List” means the list of contacts associated with the Project Portfolio that 
the Designated Agent and Contractor will jointly prepare.   
“Key Decision” means (i) any action that involves the expenditure or commitment of any 
Designated Agent or Project Company funds, (ii) entering into any agreements on behalf 
of the Designated Agent or Project Company and (iii) amending, extending, terminating 
or modifying any agreement to which the Designated Agent or Project Company is a 
party. 
“Maintenance Fee” shall be with respect to the Project Portfolio, the applicable amount 
set forth in Section 5.01(a). 
“Maintenance Worksheets” means the template forms which the Contractor will use for 
the documenting and reporting of maintenance activities.   


--- Page 7 ---
 
 
 
 
7 
 
 
“Maximum Response Times” is defined in Exhibit A. 
“Module Mapping” means a mapped representation of the location designations of all 
modules contained on the Sites and as Spare Parts provided to the Contractor by the 
Designated Agent. 
“Module Nameplate Power” means the direct current power output for a module as 
defined by the manufacturer under standardized test conditions. 
“Monitoring-Inverter Equipment Key” means a key that associates monitoring 
provider’s equipment serial numbers and addressing codes with the monitoring 
equipment locations provided by the Designated Agent. 
“Non-Covered Services” is defined in Exhibit A. 
“Non-Covered Services Fee Schedule” is defined in Exhibit B. 
“O&M Contractor Materials” is defined in Exhibit A. 
“Party” and “Parties” are defined in the preamble. 
“Period” is defined in Exhibit C. 
“Person” means any individual, corporation, joint venture, association, limited liability 
company, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or governmental 
authority. 
“PPA” is defined in the recitals. 
“Premises” means the portions of the Site used for the System. 
“Project Company” is defined in the recitals. 
“Project Company Supplied Parts” is defined in Exhibit A. 
“Project Portfolio” is the group of Systems owned by Project Company, as set forth 
in Exhibit F, which are the subject of this Agreement. 
“PsomasFMG” is defined in the recitals.  
“Required Insurance” means the terms of the insurance required to be carried by 
Contractor pursuant to Exhibit D. 
“Requirements” is defined in Section 3.01. 
“Services” is defined in Section 2.01. 


--- Page 8 ---
 
 
 
 
8 
 
 
“SIM Card List” is a list in Microsoft Excel of the applicable wireless service carrier’s 
data SIM cards being used to transmit monitoring data to the monitoring portal initially 
provided to Contractor by Designated Agent. 
“Site” means the real property upon which the System is located. 
“Site Agreement” is defined in the recitals.   
“Spare Parts” is defined in Exhibit A. 
“Spare Parts Inventory List” is an itemized list of the Spare Parts initially provided to 
Contractor by Designated Agent. 
“Subcontract” means an agreement between Contractor and any Subcontractor or 
between Subcontractors. 
“Subcontractor” means any subcontractor or supplier or vendor of equipment, materials 
or services engaged by Contractor, or any subcontractor of any tier or any Person 
engaged or employed by any thereof in connection with the performance of the Services. 
“System” is defined in the recitals. 
“Warranties” means all manufacturer warranties related to the equipment and 
technology of the Systems and all workmanship and service warranties provided by the 
EPC Provider.  
ARTICLE 2 
RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONTRACTOR 
Section 2.01 Appointment of Contractor.  Project Company hereby appoints 
Contractor, and Contractor hereby accepts the appointment, to provide all work, labor, 
equipment, and materials necessary to perform all preventative and corrective maintenance, 
emergency response services, system monitoring, and other services necessary to optimize 
performance of the Systems, all as described in greater detail in Exhibit A, Sections 1 
through 6 hereto (collectively the “Services”) , commencing on the Commercial Operation 
Date of the first System in the Project Portfolio, and continuing throughout the remainder 
of the Initial Term, as extended pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement. Unless 
specifically identified in Exhibit A as a Non-Covered Service, which shall be compensated 
pursuant to Section 5.01(b), all Services listed on Exhibit A shall be compensated pursuant 
to Section 5.01(a). Notwithstanding the foregoing, any maintenance or repairs required for 
Contractor to meet the Availability and Performance Guarantee shall be performed by 
Contractor as a part of the Services pursuant to Section 5.01(a). 
Section 2.02 RESERVED 


--- Page 9 ---
 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
Section 2.03 No Express or Implied Agency. Neither Party shall hold itself out as 
an agent, representative, employee, officer, director, partner, owner or affiliate of the other 
Party.  Neither Party is granted any right or authority to assume or create any obligation or 
responsibility, express or implied, on behalf of or in the name of the other Party, or to bind 
the other Party, in any manner, nor is Contractor granted any right or authority to assume or 
create any obligation or responsibility, express or implied, on behalf of or in the name of 
the Project Company, Designated Agent or Host, or to bind the Project Company, 
Designated Agent or Host, in any manner. 
Section 2.04 Prohibited Acts. Contractor shall not, under any circumstances, 
unless otherwise directed in writing by the Designated Agent and the Project Company, 
undertake any of the following actions: (a) cause the Project Company or the Designated 
Agent to act as a surety, a guarantor or incur similar liabilities on behalf of the Project 
Company, Designated Agent or Host, directly or indirectly, whether for indebtedness or 
otherwise; (b) cause the conveyance, modification, sale or disposition of any part of any 
System; (c) waive any of the Project Company’s rights under, or terminate or amend, any 
legal document; (d) permanently change the capacity characteristics of any System; (e) 
perform any Services resulting in the voiding of the Warranties; or (f) settle or release any 
claims on behalf of Project Company or the Designated Agent.  Further, Contractor shall 
not claim by this Agreement or otherwise that the Project Company is (a) an electric utility, 
(b) subject to electric utility regulation, (c) subject to regulated electric rates or (d) 
providing electric utility service to any Person.  
Section 2.05 Payments by Contractor. Contractor shall be fully responsible for the 
payment of all wages, salaries, benefits and other compensation to its employees, and all 
sums due to its Subcontractors and suppliers for Services provided. 
Section 2.06 Liens.  The Contractor shall keep and maintain each System, 
including all Spare Parts Inventory, free and clear of all liens or other encumbrances 
created, assumed or permitted by, through or under Contractor or any of its Subcontractors 
resulting from the actions of the Contractor or any of its Subcontractors or work done at the 
request of the Contractor.  The Project Company shall have the right to post a bond in 
connection with any such lien or other encumbrance, and the Contractor shall reimburse the 
Project Company for all costs therefor and shall have the right to offset any payments due 
to Contractor. 
Section 2.07 Key Decisions.  Notwithstanding anything contained in this 
Agreement to the contrary, Project Company and Contractor hereby agree and 
acknowledge that with respect to any action hereunder that constitutes a Key Decision, 
Contractor shall not take such action without prior written approval from the Designated 
Agent herein.  
Section 2.08 Coordination and Review of Deliverables.  Time is of the essence.  
All notices, elections, reports and other items required to be prepared and delivered by 
Contractor pursuant to this Agreement as described in greater detail in Exhibit A, shall be 
delivered to the Designated Agent in the manner described therein and pursuant to Section 


--- Page 10 ---
 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
12.05 and with the frequency and by the reasonable due dates specified by the Designated 
Agent.  The parties hereto shall cooperate to develop procedures and protocols to carry out 
the foregoing in an expeditious manner so as not to unreasonably delay either the 
Contractor’s performance of Services hereunder or the Designated Agent’s performance of 
services on behalf of Project Company. 
Section 2.09 Insurance Coverages.  Without limiting any of the obligations or 
liabilities of Contractor hereunder, Contractor shall at all times throughout the term of this 
Agreement carry and maintain, or cause to be carried and maintained, the insurance 
coverages set forth in Exhibit D.  All insurance carried and maintained pursuant to this 
Agreement shall be provided by insurance companies having AM Best ratings of A:X or 
better, or be otherwise acceptable to the Designated Agent and Project Company, and 
otherwise shall be in accordance with the provisions below. 
(a) 
Endorsements.  All insurance carried and maintained in accordance with 
this Agreement shall be endorsed (“blanket” endorsements acceptable) to provide that: (i) 
the Designated Agent, Project Company, Financing Parties, and Host shall be included as 
an additional insured under the insurance policies, (excepting the Worker’s 
Compensation policy), as mutually agreed to by the parties hereto with the understanding 
that any obligation imposed upon Contractor (including the liability to pay premiums) 
shall be the sole obligation of Contractor and not that of the Designated Agent or Project 
Company;  (ii) the insurers thereunder shall waive all rights of subrogation against the 
Designated Agent, Project Company, Financing Parties, and Host as to any claim, right of 
setoff and counterclaim and any other right to deduction due to outstanding premiums, 
whether by attachment or otherwise; (iii) such insurance shall be primary without right of 
contribution of any other insurance carried by or on behalf of the Designated Agent, 
Project Company, Financing Parties, or Host; (iv) if such policies are written to cover 
more than one insured, all terms, conditions, insuring agreements and endorsements 
(other than the limits of liability) shall operate in the same manner as if there were a 
separate policy covering each insured;  (v) if any such insurance is canceled for any 
reason whatsoever, including non-payment of premium, such cancellation or change shall 
not be effective as to the Designated Agent, Project Company, Financing Parties, Host or 
any other additional insured until thirty (30) days after receipt by the Designated Agent of 
written notice of such cancellation or change; and (vi) the breach of any of the warranties 
or conditions of the insurance policy by Contractor shall not prejudice the right of any 
additional insured under such policy. 
(b) 
Certificates.  On or before the Effective Date, and annually thereafter, 
Contractor shall arrange for furnishing the Designated Agent with approved certification 
of all required insurance, which shall include a standard ACORD form certificate of 
insurance.  Such certification shall be executed by an authorized representative of each 
insurer.  Such certification or notice, as the case may be, shall identify the insurers, the 
type of insurance, the insurance limits and the policy term.  Contractor will furnish the 
Designated Agent with evidence of such insurance upon request. 
