--- Page 1 ---
 
 
DESIGN SPECIFICATION SHEET 
DC COUPLED ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM 
 (YOTTA BLOCK + DPI-208 or DPI-480 Microinverters) 
Ver. 2.0 March 2025 
 
Summary 
 
1)​ The 
Yotta 
DC-coupled 
energy 
storage 
is 
comprised 
of 
the 
following 
components/features: 
 
a)​ A four (4) channel Microinverter (DPI-208 or DPI-480) designed for commercial 
three-phase 208V and 480V grid connection (Data sheet available). 
b)​ The YOTTA BLOCK is a panel-level, modular, self-contained DC-coupled, Lithium 
Iron Phosphate (LiFePO4) energy storage module for demand charge reduction 
and 
Time 
of 
Use 
(TOU) 
applications 
in 
commercial 
and 
industrial 
interconnections (Data sheet available). 
c)​ The Yotta DPI Microinverters and YOTTA BLOCK both have communication 
gateways which show system status through a web platform; ECU-R and SL-GW 
gateways are required (Data sheets available). 
 
Submittals 
 
1)​ Submittal shall be provided including the following items. 
 
a)​ Contractor supplied bill of materials which includes the DPI Microinverter and  
(YOTTA BLOCK) battery system meeting AC power and energy storage requested. 
b)​ Product specification sheets indicating general device descriptions, dimensions, 
electrical specifications, wiring details, and nomenclature. 
c)​ Installation drawing showing connection points and wiring connection points for 
power and data connections.  
d)​ Contractor installation information (must be completed before start-up). 
e)​ Service options including parts warranties, parts and labor warranties, and 
preventative maintenance schedule by authorized technicians.  
 
Approvals 
 
1)​ Prior approval from the owner's representative is required for products or systems 
manufactured by other companies.  
 
2)​ Any alternate product or system that has not received prior approval from the owner’s 
representative at least 10 days prior to submission of a proposal package shall be 
rejected. 
 
 
 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
3)​ Alternate products or systems require submission of catalog datasheets, system 
overview documents, and installation manuals to the owner’s representative. (System 
Integration) 
 
Quality Assurance  
 
1)​ Product Qualifications: 
 
a)​ System electrical components shall be listed or recognized by a nationally 
recognized testing laboratory (e.g., UL or CSA) and shall be labeled with 
required markings as applicable: 
b)​ All work must follow current National Electrical Code requirements: 
i)​
NFPA 855, “Standard for the Installation of Stationary Energy Storage 
Systems” 
c)​ Battery cell: 
i)​
UL 1642 “Standard for Lithium Batteries”  
d)​ Yotta Energy  YOTTA BLOCK module-level energy storage module: 
i)​
The YOTTA BLOCK meets UL 1973 “Batteries for Use in Light Electric Rail 
Applications and Stationary Applications”. 
ii)​
The YOTTA BLOCK is certified to UL 9540 “Energy Storage Systems and 
Equipment”, and the report is available.  
iii)​
The YOTTA BLOCK is certified to UL 9540A “Test Method for Evaluating 
Thermal Runaway Fire Propagation in Battery Energy Storage Systems 
and the report is available.  Please note that the YOTTA BLOCK is 
self-contained, fireproof and does not need a fire protection system.  
iv)​
Appendix JA12 – Qualification Requirements for Battery Storage System 
(2022 version). 
 
2)​ Yotta DPI Microinverters meet all grid interconnection standards, as applicable to the 
project as a whole: 
 
a)​ Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 1547 
b)​ UL 1741 SA/SB, “Standard for Static Inverters and Charge, Converters, 
Controllers and Interconnection System Equipment for Use with Distributed 
Energy Resources”. 
 
3)​ Other codes and standards that will apply include: 
 
a)​ UN 38.3 “Certification for Lithium Batteries” (Transportation) 
b)​ NFPA 855 Compliant 
c)​ American National Standards Institute (ANSI) C12.1 (electricity metering) 
d)​ American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE)-7 Minimum Design Loads for 
Buildings and Other Structures 
e)​ All components and the facility where the product is manufactured must be 
RoHS compliant. 
(1)​ Installation and Startup Qualifications 
 
 


--- Page 3 ---
 
 
(2)​ System startup and commissioning shall be performed by the 
installer. 
(3)​ Service and Support Requirements 
(a)​ Phone Support: Toll-free technical support shall be 
available. 
(b)​ Remote Troubleshooting (System comms). 
(c)​ Service Contract: All work to be done by the BESS 
manufacturer.  
 
4)​ Project Conditions 
 
a)​ The Yotta DPI Microinverters and the YOTTA BLOCK are sealed to NEMA 4X and 
are designed for outdoor installation. The gateways can be mounted inside the 
building or housed in a NEMA 3R cabinet(s). 
b)​ Equipment shall not be subjected to dust, debris, moisture, or temperature and 
humidity conditions exceeding the requirements indicated above or as marked 
on the product, at any point before installation. 
c)​ Only properly rated equipment and enclosures, installed per the manufacturer’s 
instructions, may be subjected to dust and moisture following installation. 
 
5)​ Warranty 
 
a)​ The YOTTA BLOCK provides a ten-year (10) warranty. Coverage shall begin on the 
date of commissioning the system. 
b)​ The hardware warranty shall cover the repair or replacement (RMA) of any 
defective products within the warranty period. 
 
6)​ Maintenance & Sustainability 
 
a)​ The manufacturer shall make available to the owner upgrades, and/or 
replacements available for a minimum of ten (10) years following installation. 
 
Equipment 
 
1)​ Manufacturers 
 
a)​ Acceptable Manufacturers 
i)​
Yotta Energy Inc. 
 
2)​ System Architecture 
 
a)​ The Yotta Energy BESS shall consist of the following major components. 
i)​
Yotta DPI Microinverter (208 or 480V) which converts DC power to AC 
power to 3-phase, 208V/480V. 
ii)​
The YOTTA BLOCK Energy Storage module stores the energy that is 
supplied from the solar modules and makes it available to the Yotta DPI 
 
 


--- Page 4 ---
 
 
Microinverters when called to provide the energy to the user’s system 
load. 
iii)​
Safety – The Yotta Ecosystem is designed from the ground up for safety.  
Additional documentation can be requested through Yotta Energy’s 
website (www.yottaenergy.com) and/or a sales representative. 
 
3)​ Yotta DPI Microinverters Microinverter 
 
a)​ Each Yotta DPI Microinverter device is often referred to as the power conversion 
device. The Yotta DPI Microinverters convert the DC input power including Yotta 
Energy’s  (YOTTA BLOCK) into AC power to be used by the user’s system loads. 
b)​ The Yotta DPI Microinverters datasheet can be requested through Yotta Energy’s 
website (www.yottaenergy.com) with highlights shown below: 
i)​
DPI (Dual Power Microinverter) designed to work with PV and Yotta’s  
(YOTTA BLOCK) Energy Storage System. 
ii)​
Native 3-Phase output (208V & 480V). 
iii)​
Low voltage DC input (<60V). 
iv)​
4 Solar module input channels, 2 MPPT’s . 
v)​
Continuous rated AC output power 1728VA at 208V and 1800VA at 480V. 
vi)​
Engineered for high-capacity PV modules. 
vii)​
Maximum input current 20A. 
viii)​
Integrated safety protection relay. 
ix)​
Rapid Shutdown Complaint. 
x)​
Adjustable Power Factor. 
 
4)​ YOTTA BLOCK modular energy storage module.  
 
a)​ The YOTTA BLOCK Energy Storage System is Lithium Iron Phosphate (LiFePO4) 
chemistry. It has a nominal energy storage of 1kWh. The modular design means 
just adding ESS units to meet desired capacity (retrofittable system). For 
example, 100 kWh needs 100 YOTTA BLOCK batteries. The unit can be cycled 
daily. After 10 years of daily cycling the Yotta will meet; provide no less than 
70% of 1kWh per module.  
b)​ Yotta Energy warrants the YOTTA BLOCK capacity and provides remedy if there 
should be a shortfall before unlimited daily cycles for 10 years.  
c)​ The Yotta Energy BESS is a safe electrical low voltage (SELV) grouping as 
defined by UL60950; below 60Vdc. 
d)​ Each YOTTA BLOCK battery has SoC (State of Charge) balancing and thermal 
management technology. 
e)​ Thermal separation between individual cells in the YOTTA BLOCK is designed to 
avoid thermal coupling between cells. 
f)​ The YOTTA BLOCK is self-contained and does not require external cooling. Its 
patented thermal management system manages individual cells and internal 
electronics.   
g)​ The operating temperature range is: -20 to 60ºC (-4 to 120ºF) Max continuous.  
 
 
 


--- Page 5 ---
 
 
5)​ System Specification 
 
a)​ The Yotta Energy System – including Yotta DPI Microinverters and the YOTTA 
BLOCK Energy Storage System is very safe since it is not housed in a common 
cabinet which concentrates the battery cells in a big box. Each Yotta product is 
self-contained with metal enclosures protecting the site from all 9450A tested 
failures (Distributed system). 
 
6)​ The YOTTA BLOCK datasheet can be requested through the Yotta Energy website with 
highlights shown below.  
 
a)​ Best-in-class fire safety. 
b)​ Plug-and-play for simplified deployment. 
c)​ Low Voltage DC architecture (<60V). 
d)​ Single-phase or 3-phase (208V or 480V) options -Engineered for high-capacity 
PV modules -Light-weight design for ease of handling during installation. 
e)​ High-efficiency DC-coupled architecture delivers more savings. 
f)​ Modular design that can expand to meet the changing needs of buildings. 
g)​ Compliance; see Yotta Energy’s YOTTA BLOCK data sheet. 
h)​ Auxiliary Power – The  ESS does not require auxiliary power, although, power for 
the gateway (SL-GW) is required (110-120V) 
i)​
The BESS does not need regular maintenance. 
j)​
The BESS does not need a fire suppression system. 
k)​ The SL-GW (gateway) can provide a single communication interface via CAT6 
cable; local WiFI network keeps the system synced. Cellular network upon 
request available.  
 
7)​ Basic Control 
 
a)​ The BESS shall be installed in the default operation mode to allow charging only 
from an on-site photovoltaic system when the photovoltaic system production 
is greater than the on-site electrical load. The BESS shall discharge only when 
the photovoltaic (PV) system production is less than the on-site electrical load. 
 
8)​ Time of Use (TOU) Control 
 
a)​ The battery storage system shall be installed in the default operation mode to 
allow charging from an on-site photovoltaic system. The BESS shall begin 
discharging during the highest-priced TOU hours of the day. The operation 
schedule shall be pre-programmed from the factory, updated remotely, or 
programmed during the installation/commissioning of the system. 
 
Execution 
 
1)​ Installation Requirements 
 
 
 


--- Page 6 ---
 
 
a)​ Installation Procedures and Verification 
i)​
The successful bidder shall review all required installation and 
pre-startup procedures with the manufacturer’s representative through 
pre-construction meetings. 
ii)​
The successful bidder shall install and connect the BESS according to 
the manufacturer’s installation instructions, wiring diagrams, the project 
submittals and plans specifications while complying to all applicable 
local codes.  
b)​ Coordination with owner’s IT Network Infrastructure 
i)​
The successful bidder is required to coordinate with the owner’s 
representative to secure all required BESS data connections to the 
owner’s IT network infrastructure. 
c)​ Documentation and Deliverables 
i)​
The installing contractor shall be responsible for documenting the 
installed location of the BESS system and all electrical components 
feeding the BESS.  
 
2)​ System Startup 
 
a)​ Upon completion of installation by the installer, including completion of all 
required verification and documentation required by the manufacturer, the 
system shall be started up and programmed by the installer and/or Yotta 
Energy. 
 
3)​ Project Turnover 
 
a)​ System Documentation 
i)​
The installer shall submit a software database file with desired device 
labels and notes completed. 
ii)​
Installing contractor to grant access to the owner for the programming 
setup. 
b)​ Owner Training and Responsibilities 
i)​
Options for onsite training for owner and designated attendees to be 
included in the submittal package. 
ii)​
The installer and end customer will come to a continued monitoring 
agreement post-installation. Yotta will support installer/direct purchaser 
inquiries only. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
